# Recitation: Eraser
Jared Hanson  
02/28/17
## Pre-Recitation
- What are the goals of Eraser?
    - Eraser is used to detect race conditions in multithreaded programs.
    - It is also designed to be more efficient than prior methods.
    - It is also designed to be more thorough in detection than prior
        methods of debugging.
- How was it designed to meet those goals?
    - Uses lockset algorithm.
        - Makes sure that every shared varaible is protected by some lock.
        - Does so by monitoring all the reads and writes of a program.
    - Eraser takes a binary program and returns a new binary that has added calls to
        Eraser to implement Lockset algorithm at runtime.
- Why do we need a tool like Eraser? (Or why do the authors believe that we need
    such a tool?)
    - Race conditions are very hard to find and can takes months to track down
        in a real code base
    - Race conditions often times are hard to find naturally, and only occur in
        unique conditions that may be very difficult to find/replicate.
    - First dynamic race detection tool applied to production servers.

## Recitation
### Eraser
- Not looking for perfection when checking race conditions.
    - mostly worried about common cases
- convince people to use new big efficient computer
- does not recreate the bug
- when variable comes into existence
    - create set of locks for it of all available locks
    - objective:
        - make sure whenever var is trying to be accessed, there is at least
            one lock set on the variable
        - is there situation where variable is accessed, but no lock protects it
    - intersect two sets, idk where/how????
    - if null set of locks, then there is an error
- can have false positives:
    - many readers/ 1 writer
    - initialization of variables
    - many readers/ no writers
- making Eraser better
    - introduced states
        - virgin state, --> new thread, r/w
            - exclusive state --> new thread, read only
                - shared state --> read write
                    - shared-modified state
            - exclusive state --> new thread, write
                - shared-modified state

Why hard to find race conditions?  
- Timing can be random
- Reproducing the bug is extremely hard to do

In class Question  
Threads  
- pros
    - web servers replying to many clients
    - progress bars, sharing data
- cons
    - locks become really complicated

Eraser  
- pros
    - all testing tools are useful
    - any amount of bugs caught are very useful
    - can't really hurt
- cons
    - false positives are extra work
    - if not many locks then doesn't make sense

