# Recitation
02/23/17

## PROCESSES AND IMAGES
__image:__ computer execution environment
includes:  
- memory image
- general register values
- status of open files
- current directory

__process:__ execution of an image

### Processes
new processes can only come into existence with `fork`

when forked
- process splits into two independently executing processes
- both have indpenedent copies of memory image and all open files
- parent process:
    - returned processid identifies child process and is never 0
- child process:
    - returned value is always 0

### Pipes
processes can communicate with related processes with read/write calls from i/o

```
filep = pipe()
```

pipe then acts just like i/o of filesystem and allows processes to subscribe to
same stream

pipe must be set up by common ancestor of both processes

### Execution of programs

```
execute(file, arg1, arg1, ..., argn)
```

### Process synchronization

```
processid = wait(status)
```

halts execution til status returns id


### Termination

```
exit(status)
```

terminates process, destroys image, closes open files, generally obliterates it


## Pre-Recitation Questions
- What does the UNIX shell do?
    - The UNIX shell is an interface that allows users to selectively execute commands,
        that correspond with the possible actions of the computers, and
        receive feedback from those commands when available.
- How does it work?
    - The UNIX shell works by continually looping and waiting for keyboard input
        from the user. When it is input a newline character, the shell tries to
        fork a new process based on the input command and arguments. The shell
        then waits on the forked child process to finish executing, and prints
        the output to the user (or saves it to a file).
- Why is it useful?
    - The unix shell is useful because it gives users full control over all the
        actions available to them. Anything that you can do on your computer,
        you can pretty much do on your command line. The interface's different
        ways of filtering output is also useful for chaining together commands
        to produce output beyond the scope of just one command's single power.

## Recitation In Class
1. In UNIX, all preocesses receive an equal fraction of CPU time.
    - False
    - Scheduler does arbitrary things
    - Random
2. In UNIX, two child processes can communicate via pipe only if the pipe is
   created by a common ancestor.
    - True
    - You can only communicate with files that were inherited properly
    - name is scoped to process in file descriptors
3. Two processes can communicate via shared memory, regardless of whether they
   have a common ancestor or not.
    - False
4. execute() creates a new process.
    - False
    - Only fork can
5. A pip between two processes cannotbe established after both have started.
    - True
    - Once forked, only thing processes can share are what both had
