# Recitation: DARPA
## Pre-Recitation

- What were three of the most important goals of the early Internet?
    - Original main goal was to connect ARPANET with the ARPA packet radio
        network, and so goal was to connect multiple existing networks.
    - Because the internet's early history is so entangled with the military,
        survivability was put as a main goal during the design of the internet.
    - The internet should support a variety of diffferent types of services,
        at the transport service level.
- How was it designed to meet those goals?
    - Packet switching was a fundamental component of the Internet
        architecture, that allowed these seperate networks to be interconnected.
    - The keep the network uptime high, the internet was designed to mask any
        transient failures. It follows the "fate-sharing" model to protect
        against network failures.
    - The internet was designed to allow all the private networks in the system
        to support, so it put some general restrictions on what it would
        transport
            - packets
            - reasonable size
            - 100 byte minimum
            - not perfect reliability on transport
- Why were those goals important (or, why does the author believe that those
    goals were important)?
    - Connecting these already existing networks and making the internet have
        layers of networks allows for distributed work and permits a higher
        degree of integration. This leads to better performance and makes the
        internet faster and more practical.
    - The internet's history is closely related to the military, and making the
        internet suitable for wartime situations meant that survivability had
        to be the number one goal during the design.
    - There are many different uses of the internet, and these different uses
        require protocols that place varying levels of importance on goals like
        reliability, delay, and bandwidth. This means there needed to be
        support for multiple different protocols/services.

## Recitation

- __layering:__
- __multiplexing:__ making one channel able to transport packets like it was
    three different channels because the host/destination can distiguish
    different types of packets for different purposes
- __abstraction:__

<a name="layers"></a>
__Layers of internet:__

- __link layer:__ connection of information between devices
    - wifi
    - lte
    - ethernet
- __IP(internet protocol):__ on top of link layer
    - IP addresses: where to send stuff
    - packets: information we are sending
    - it is best effort layer, will not always be successful in sending
- layer on top of IP
    - UDP
    - TCP
        - send http request with port you're using
        - recipient responds with port they're using
        - start flow of data
            - serialize the packets sent to abstract a flow of bits
        - this is idea of multiplexing, because you can use different ports

### In Class Excersise
- Datagrams: think its the concept that encompass sending packets
- [Layering](#layers)
- Gateways: now are called routers
