# 6.033: Recitation 2 - DNS
- **missed recitation 1 bc of snow day**

## Pre-Recitation

### Pre-Reading questions
Questions to think of while reading:
- What is the benefit of a recursive query?
- What are the benefits of DNS's hierarchical design?
- Are there any drawbacks to DNS's design?

### [Reading: Section 4.4](./Reading_4.4.notes.md)
### Write-up
- What is the purpose of DNS?
    - DNS is a protocol that allows clients to resolve computer addresses from
        domain names.
- How does it work?
    - It works by distributing lookup tables across many name servers
- Why was it designed to work that way?

## Recitation

Karen Sollins - sollins@scail.mit.edu

### Complexity

- client server model
    - model designed to provide modularity
    - gives better seperation of concerns
    - __naming__
        - question: two different way to invoke local call?
            - call by __value__
                - upsides
                    - no interference (mutations to object aren't dangerous)
                - usually will pass by value in distributed environment
            - call by __reference__
                - upsides
                    - no memory
        - names in everday life
            - filenames
            - urls
            - directories

### Naming

#### DNS
- `Record <-- DNS_RESOLVE(value)`
- `DNS_RESOLVE` returns
    - a record
        - types:
            - NS_RECORD
                - name server record
            - RECORD
            - REFERALL
            - CNAME
            - ERROR
            - etc.

#### Design choices:

1. Name Assignment
    - authority: who gets to give names
        - assigning allows for distributed name assignments
        - allowing client to select name requires one central __naming authority__
    - structure/form
        - domain name has hierarchical components
        - human name is set of letters without much form besides common names
2. Name Mapping
    - performance
        - is distributing scalable
            - keeping namine authority constant
        - name mapping procedure fast
    - authority
        - resolution for information
            - who even knows the right mapping
