# Recitation 7: MapReduce
## Pre-Recitation
1. What are the performance goals of MapReduce (both the programming model +
   its implementation)?
    - MapReduce created a way, through functional programming style, to automate
        the parallelization of data processing across multiple machines.
    - It was to do so in an extremely fault tolerant manner.
        - worker failures
        - master failures
    - It was to do so in an extremely scalable way as well.
        - Able to process terabytes of data across thousands of machines
2. How was MapReduce implemented at Google to meet those goals?
    - MapReduce used a restricted progamming model to make it much easier to
        distribute the work while maintaining fault tolerance.
    - MapReduce also was implemented in a way that reduced the amount of data
        sent across networks.
    - MapReduce will use idle machines to duplicate computations across
        multiple machines.
3. Why was MapReduce implemented in this way?
    - The restircted programming model enforces constraints that allow
        different pieces of information to be processed seperately, making
        parallelization of computaion much easier.
    - Google engineers found that networks are extremely slow and tend to be
        a bottleneck, so its best to optimize in a way that relies the least on
        the network.
    - By duplicating computations across many other machines that otherwise
        would be idle, we reduce the impact that slow machines have, thus
        clearing bottlenecks caused by a slow machine.

## Recitation
- Distance matters in datacenters
- Being in the same rack makes it much faster

- Performance
- Fault Tolerance
    - machine failures
