# Recitiation: Log Structure File System

## Pre Recitation
- What is one technique that the log-structure filesystem uses to achieve higher
    performance? (There is more than one technique)
    - Instead of writing changes right to disk, LFS saves all file changes in
        buffers. Once this buffer becomes full, LFS writes all of the changes
        in the buffer at once.
- How does the log-structured file system implement this technique?
    - Using an in memory segment, LFS buffers all updates to files and its
        metadata. Once the buffer becomes full, LFS writes all of the changes
        to an unused place on disk, sequentially.
- Why does this technique, along with minimizing seeks, lead to good performance?
    - This technique takes advantage of the large gap in performance between
        random access writes and sequential writes. The sequential writes to
        disk largely improve the average performance of LFS.

## Recitation

## Design Document

- make sure to specify a protocol for the communcations
    - the central server needs to know the packets coming in are for video
        proceesing, or whatever it needed to be, not just raw bits
- consider the comments and the update on assignment for DP oral presentation


## LFS: Log-Structured File Systems

- main goal:
    - to write to disk more efficiently as the file system
- assumption:
    - you'll be able to use memory as opposed to disk to save changes and write
        eventually
    - memory is getting cheaper and cheaper so they are utilizing that to make
        these writes much faster
    -

- Mark Day (recitation instructor)
    - he was at company who built one of these, and they ended up not using it

### Active Learning

- Reads
    - seeks
    - loads
    - bouncing
- Writes
    - all sequential writes, to open spaces in the disk
- Recovery
    - if timestamps were same, then use most recent timestamp where all the
        timestamps are the same to ensure that
