# Recitation: Bufferbloat

## Pre-Recitation

- What conclusions does each author draw about bufferbloat?
    - Gettys:
        - Claims that much of the problems with TCP/IP protocol is due to too
            large of buffers and bufferbloat.
        - Hardware for large storage is getting cheap so buffers can be large,
            but managing the large buffers is overlooked
        - Says its overlooked and often the delays from full buffers are just
            written off at network traffic
    - Allman:
        - Claims that it is definitley extremely problematic and clearly can
            happen, as proven by many other papers about bufferbloat
        - He also claims that although it can happen, he doesn't believe that
            they do happen enough in a live situation to be an issue.
        - He concludes that residential areas generally tend to have more of an
            issue with TCP, maybe from bufferbloating, than non residential areas.
        - Claims it is understood very little, but plays a role in internet
            protocols that are being designed today
- How do they support these conclusions?
    - Gettys:
        - Gives a personal anecdote of him investigating his own network
            traffic
        - Also talks about replicating what he found on his home network on
            computers everywhere and even came out with a study around it
    - Allman:
        - He conducts waht he believes in the first actual "systematic,
            non-anecdotal study of bufferbloat"
        - He uses a lot of data, charts, and statitistics that are very
            specific to showing if blufferboats are present.
- Why do the two authors draw different conclusions in some cases?
    - Allman disagrees with anecdotal evidence and says people generally
        overestimate blufferboating in a live environment, because they focus
        too much on what could happen rather than what does actually happen.
    - Gettys claims that people overlook bufferbloaking too much and write it
        off as network traffic. He also says its hard to find blufferboating
        because it sometimes can take a little bit to fill the buffers and some
        tests aren't long enough to account for that.

## Recitation

### Bufferbloating



### Quiz Question: Spring 2014 Problem 8
A) False
B) True --
C) False -- Only occurs in real time apps and similiar. The delay in getting started and
getting into the buffer will not matter as much once you're over that.
D) True --

