# 6.033: Recitation 3 - UNIX

## Pre-Recitation
To help you as you read:

- By the end of section three, you should understand the differences between
ordinary files, directories, and special files.
- By the end of section four (along with section three), you should be able to
explain what happens when a user opens a file. For instance, if a user opens
/home/example.txt, what does the UNIX file system do in order to find the
file's contents? You should understand this in detail (e.g., at the i-node
level). As always, if you have any questions, post on Piazza!


### Pre-Reading questions
As you read, you may also find it helpful to think about the following:

- What things in UNIX are named?
- How does naming in UNIX compare to naming in DNS? How do layering and hierarchy
apply (if at all)?

### Reading: Unix Time-Sharing System
#### Intro
> We hope, however, that users find that the most important characteristics of
> the system are its simplicity, elegance, and ease of use.

#### Hardware and Software Environment
PDP-11/70, where Researc Unix system is intsalled is:

- 16-bit word computer with
    - 768K bytes core memory
    - system kernel that occupies 90K bytes
        - divided between code and data tables

Unix is written in C

- used to be written in assembly
- codebase in C is about 1/3 bigger than assembly
    - acceptable increase because C allows much more collaboration

#### The File System
##### Files
Three types of files to user

- __ordinary file__: just a regular file. Consists of whatever you put in it.
    binary blob, .txt file, etc
- __directories__: provide mappings from filenames to the files themselves
    - two default entries in every directory:
        - `.`: refers to this directory
        - `..`: refers to parent directory
- __special files__: constitute the most unusual feature of the Unix file system
    - every I/O device has at least 1 special file
    - read and written like normal file, except
        = requests to read/write result in activation in associated device
    - entry for each special file in `/dev`
        - to write on magnetic tape gotta write to `/dev/mt`
        - file like this for each:
            - communication line
            - disk
                - active disk protected from indiscriminate access
            - tape drive
            - physical main memory
                - protected from indiscriminate access
    - why treat I/O like normal file
        - file and device I/O as similiar as possible
        - file/device names have same syntax/meaning
            - program expecting file can also receive device name
        - files have same protection mechanism as regular files

##### Notes on files
- __path name__: sequence/of/direcories/then/filename.txt
    - file names are 14 or fewer characters
- __linking__: directory entry sometimes called link
    - happens when same non-directory file appear in several spots with
        different names
    - unix different than other OS's because the directory entry is just a
        name and pointer to info for file
- __root directory__: base of path to all files and directories
    - anything under the root directory has access to *commands*
        - __commands__: functions everywhere (git, vim, etc)

##### Removable file systems
- `mount` system request
    - takes special file associated with storage volume
        - storage volume should have structure of its own indpendent file system
    - mounts file system in root directory like `/removable/`
    - mount makes `/removable/` act exactly as if it were apart of the machine
        - virtually no distinction between removable volume and permanent after
            `mount`

##### Protection
Every file is marked with an owner. The owner's user ID is associated with the
newly created file, along with __10 protection bits__
- first 9 bits all about independent read, write, execute permissions for owner of
    file, members of his group, and all remaining users
- 10th bit reserved for super-user priveledges
    - if 10th bit is active, in super priveleded mode, `sudo`
        - if sudo is on, the current user's user_id is always set to that of
            the owner of the file you're trying to access

##### File I/O
- no locks on files visible to user
    - in practice it's unnecessary
        - in practice, text editor gets copy of file then writes that so lock
            doesn't even work
- handling simultaneously editing same file:

> Once a file is open, the following calls may be used:
>
> n = read(filep, buffer, count)  
> n = write(filep, buffer, count)  
>   Up to count bytes are transmitted between the file specified by filep and the
>   byte array specified by buffer. The returned value n is the number of bytes
>   actually transmitted. In the write case, n is the same as count except under
>   exceptional conditions, such as I/O errors or end of physical medium on special
>   files; in a read, however, n may without error be less than count. If the read
>   pointer is so near the end of the file that reading count characters would
>   cause reading beyond the end, only sufficient bytes are transmitted to reach
>   the end of the file; also, typewriter-like terminals never return more than one
>   line of input. When a read call returns with n equal to zero, the end of the
>   file has been reached. For disk files this occurs when the read pointer becomes
>   equal to the current size of the file. It is possible to generate an
>   end-of-file from a terminal by use of an escape sequence that depends on the
>   device used.

#### Implementation of file system
directory entry only has associated file and pointer to the file itself

- pointer of to file is the __i-number__(index number) for file
- i-number indexed into sytem table, __i-list__
- __i-node__ is entry in i-list

##### i-node
contains information on:

1. the user and group-ID of its owner
2. its protection bits
3. the physical disk or tape addresses for the file contents
4. its size
5. time of creation, last use, and last modification
6. the number of links to the file, that is, the number of times it appears in a directory
7. a code indicating whether the file is a directory, an ordinary file, or a
    special file.

__creating/deleting a file__:
> When a new file is created, an i-node is allocated for it and a directory
> entry is made that contains the name of the file and the i-node number. Making
> a link to an existing file involves creating a directory entry with the new
> name, copying the i-number from the original file entry, and incrementing the
> link-count field of the i-node. Removing (deleting) a file is done by
> decrementing the link-count of the i-node specified by its directory entry and
> erasing the directory entry. If the link-count drops to 0, any disk blocks in
> the file are freed and the i-node is de-allocated.

- i-list mechanism allows you to quickly check consistency of file sytem

#### Processes and images
__image__: current state of a pseudo-computer
- is a computer execution environment. It includes a memory image, general
        register values, status of open files, current directory and the like
__process__: execution of an image
- image must be in main memory duing execution

Process uses __fork__:
- makes processid, children have id = 0

__Pipes__
- inter-process channel
    -  put pipe to watch file
    - when someone writes to file they write to my pipe like a normal write to a file
    - then i know u changed file and u still change file like normal

### Write up
1. What is UNIX?
    - Unix is a general-purpose, multi-user, interactive operating system.
2. How is its filesystem designed?
    - hierarchical
        - paths start from root
        - have parents and children
    - uniformly
        - only three types of files
            - regular
            - directory
            - special
        - the types of files all share many similiar or identical properties
    - i-list -- look-up tables
        - keep one copy of file info
            - i-node
        - potentially many copies of reference to that file info
3. Why was it designed to work that way?
    - hierarchical
        - recursive structure keeps complexity down through abstraction &
            modularity
    - uniformity
        - allows for sharing of handlers, concepts, etc. across all different
            types of files
    - tables
        - allow for concurrent access of files
        - easy file integrity monitoring

## Recitation
### Unix
#### What is UNIX
- a multi-user operating system
- some people have said when asked what it is
    - it's nothing more than a filesystem
        - say that because it's all about files
- UNIX was different because of it's lack of distinction between file types

#### Storage
- sequential access
    - read(pointer, n-bytes)
- random access
    - seek(pointer)
- chunking, __blocking__
    - 512 byte blocks
    - rather small block sizes

### Naming systems
5 different features of naming system

1. Namespace
    - what is namespace
        - special characters allowed?
    - what does it look like
        - looks like `path/to/file` ?
2. Resolver
    - what is resolves to
        - pointer to file?
        - IP address
    - how is resolved
        - DNS names get resolved in distributed way
3. Context
    - universal context?
        - www
    - local context?
        - mit.edu.
4. Context named
    - how context is named
5. Name discovery
    - how to find names to be resolved

#### Active learning
1. Block layer
    1. addresses on disk
    2. numbers that map onto physical disk address
    3. context is the specific disk
    4. unnamed really
    5. file pointers hold them
2. File layer
    1. see reading
    2. i-nodes point to physical addresses
    3. 
    4. 
    5. 
3. iNode layer:

    1. you have all your i-nodes
    2.   
        - i-number and i-list
        - operating system?
    3. context is the entire space
    4. and the space isn't named
    5. get i-number from files
